Joshua Rudolf: Yeah. Then.
Joshua Rudolf: Hello.
Joshua Rudolf: Hello, Ellie Galen.
Joshua Rudolf: Everybody else
Joshua Rudolf: getting bombarded with AI requests
Joshua Rudolf: cool. We'll just give folks another minute.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Hey, guys.
Joshua Rudolf: Hey horisto.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Hello!
QEDK: Okay.
Joshua Rudolf: Hello, Hello!
Joshua Rudolf: We'll get started here in just a few seconds.
Joshua Rudolf: Okay, I think let's get started. So today's call will be focused on 7,786, and finding the most effective pragmatic path forward for unified message packing message passing across all of ethereum. The goal of today's call is to take a look at 7,786 as a strong candidate for this.
Joshua Rudolf: Evaluate the bull case, and I guess, see what questions or areas of concerns people might have.
Joshua Rudolf: I guess. I also want to note that with any standardization effort, the default, of course, is lots of debate and discussion without ever shipping anything that gets into the hands of users. So I do think we all have a shared goal and recognize the
Joshua Rudolf: urgency to fixing the fragmentation problem. And I think the best thing we can do here is to
Joshua Rudolf: continue to bring that sense of urgency and pragmatism to this discussion without losing track of
Joshua Rudolf: certain key values and the need for broad buy-in, of course. So yeah, at a certain point, we'll need to pick a direction and accelerate on it so that we can continue to actually solve interop in 2025. I say that sort of tongue in cheek. Of course, you know there's it's solving. Interop is going to be a long journey. But I do think that
Joshua Rudolf: I think we all agree that there's a lot that we will continue to do in 2025. So, yeah, thanks. All for joining. And I guess with that little intro, we can. Yeah, I'll just kick things off. I think we want to start with a brief overview of
Joshua Rudolf: of where we are, with the with the standard.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. So
Ellie Davidson: I guess to give maybe a little extra context. You know, specifically this debate. I think it should. It would be very useful if it really focuses on like the value that 7, 7, 8, 6 is providing over, like, you know, the specific implementation details which we can discuss in another forum is Sergey on to give a presentation.
sergey: Guys. Yep, I'm here.
Ellie Davidson: Okay, cool. So yeah, Sergey from Axilar is going to give kind of a presentation that overviews what? 7, 7, 8, 7, 7, 8, 6 is.
sergey: Yup, happy to do that. Share a couple of slides.
sergey: Hopefully, you guys can see. Yeah, for a little bit of context and background. You know, Sergey. I work on actually, these days, you know, prior to this, I worked on the outground protocol.
sergey: My general view on standards is to do them only if and when necessary. I'm not a fan of standards overall, but I'll do them kind of a you know, or think there's a need for them when things are not moving fast enough. And I think for the ethereum community, it's pretty important to move fast on these things.
sergey: A little bit of context. I also helped to standardize bls signatures. That you know, that was in the draft that ended up being adopted for the consensus at the ethereum community that was back when I was a bail grant and led a you know, cryptography group there, and there was pretty similar, you know, time horizon at that time, where I think a lot of different implementations existed
sergey: that couldn't really agree with one another. Right? So like, I've seen cases at that time where somebody would produce signatures that would not be verified in like other implementations. And everybody was just, kinda you know, stuck. And I think
sergey: you know we came together with the community, and you know ethereum folks and you know Stanford folks and a few others, and push that through. And I think unification of message passing for similar reasons is in a you know, need hopefully, we'll get standardized and moved along.
sergey: So why, 7, 7, 8, 6
sergey: In general. The way I view things is that interoperability is composed in layers. You have at the very core of it very basic primitives that are responsible for the transport of messages.
sergey: You have security properties that interoperability provides, and security can differ based on the method of validation. You could have external validation. You can have, you know, like lines, you can have 0 knowledge proofs, and then you have application layer protocols
sergey: if we think about it and standardize things in the right way in the modular way.
sergey: then things can be evolving, and, you know, improving independently from one another. Right? So
sergey: and I think that's really been has one of one of the philosophies. And how we approached. You know, this, this pack is making sure it's as minimal as possible, right? Making sure it only does the very simple things that are necessary so that other applications and other modules can be plugged in around it, and, you know, evolve and approve in an independent way.
sergey: So all interrupt protocols at the very core of it. Rely on basic ability to be able to take a message and deliver it on the destination chain.
sergey: all of them right intense. You have broadcast protocols, you have, you know, token, transfer protocols token, issuance, protocols.
sergey: whether or not you they do it for every message they batch things. They all need to cross chain messaging. And you know, in the same way you can think of all the L twos whenever they post state to l 1. You know it's a message that's being delivered. So really agreeing what the message specification is.
sergey: is, you know, very, very critical and very, very important. Once you have the consistent, essentially Api for sending messages, applications, and all kinds of middleware can be built in parallel independently and evolve, and you know, advance very very rapidly.
sergey: Now, why, I think it's important to to standardize this Api. Well, Api by itself doesn't have any its own value, you know, regardless to what you know a lot of interrupt players will will will try to say at the very simplistic case. You can think of it as really kind of a header of an envelope. Okay? That specifies how you send the message from a source to a destination. Very simple. It
sergey: ask things like, Who's the sender? What is the sending address? What is the destination address? What is the destination chain? You can debate, and we can discuss, and you know we should discuss and incorporate various feedback. Whether the you know data types for all these things, what are the additional fields that may be included with it? But at the end of the day. It's, you know. It's a very simple Api, and it's a very simple kind of header of the of the envelope.
sergey: simplest way to think about. It is like IP packet. If you're familiar very, very simplistically. Who sends the packets? To whom? And then you have the rest of the you know. Tcp, IP. Stack being built on top of it that has various properties, you know, delivery on security, and so on and so forth. So you know if you're familiar with the networking stack. I think this back takes, you know, a lot of philosophical differences or philosophical similarities with the with the with the standard networking. You know. Protocols?
sergey: yeah. So 7, 7, 8, 6, you know, opens up and led the the development of it with consultation of some of our engineers at Axler and a lot of other industry experts. And the goal has really to propose something that's neutral and agnostic of any specific vendor. So it doesn't follow directly. You know, acceler specifications it doesn't follow anybody specific implementations.
sergey: But it is close enough to everybody in some sense, so anybody can take, and, you know, adjust their Apis inspect to follow. The same you know, header
sergey: of this of this envelope. It's not that complicated, but as soon as we agree, then everybody can can start building their, you know their middleware and services around it and keep building on top of it.
sergey: It's open, you know. You can take a look at it. Please comment. I don't think you know, as Ellie said, we want to get into too many, you know, technical debates, you know, on on this call primarily, its purpose is to educate. But absolutely, please comment and give any feedback that you have on top of it. And open Zeppelin team, you know, and everyone else involved. We'll we'll be happy to to iterate around.
sergey: Why, it's important to do now, I think. So number one, I think timing is right. I think, as I opened up, like, you know, I kind of said that generally I don't like standards. I think the industries move a lot faster. In many cases.
sergey: except when standards become a bottleneck. And I think in ethereum community a lack of the standard is really a bottleneck that I keep on seeing over and over again, and incompatibility between different products and services that people are building across the ecosystem, I think, set everything back. So.
sergey: I think you know, standardizing it very, very simply will allow all the different vendors to keep on building
sergey: their unique security properties, their unique, you know, Api services, intent services, everything else around it much, much faster.
sergey: This. This spec has been in consultation with us and other internal providers like I mentioned. It's really battle tested like
sergey: billions of dollars has been, you know, processed by the protocols. At this point we know what the Api needs to look like. We know how this Api extends to other environments evm, and non evm, so I think it has a very, very strong, you know, base base ground, and you know it can be extended further down as needed. But, I think it's as simple enough that hopefully won't won't happen too often.
sergey: So that's it. I think that's all I wanted to cover. So I'll it didn't
sergey: happy to answer any questions or pass it back to Ellie.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, I guess for the rest of this discussion. You know, people can ask questions in the chat, or, if you want to like, raise your hand, live and ask a question that's also really great, too. So maybe I'll pause here for any questions before we move into the next segment.
Ellie Davidson: All right. No questions perfect.
Ellie Davidson: So
Ellie Davidson: to give kind of some context around this discussion. So many of us, you know, on this call believe that 7, 7, 8, 6 is a very good standard, and that it has a lot of value.
Ellie Davidson: but you know there are definitely like as with any standard. There are very reasonable arguments against 7, 7, 8, 6. So you know, I want to discuss those during this call. And so maybe I can start out with just a few questions that I think we commonly get about 7, 7, 8, 6,
Ellie Davidson: and the value of it. So I think a 1st question is, Well, why don't we standardize an existing protocol, you know, exist there? A lot of the existing interrupt protocols today are very well designed, and they're very good. And you know, could we meet our goal faster by standardizing one of them? So I don't know, Francisco, if you want to comment on this because you put it really nicely in the past.
frangio: Yeah, sure. I think the the what you're referring to is the this idea of thinking about what
frangio: the developers of the future interrupt. Protocols are going to be thinking of, and the decisions that they will want to make right.
frangio: even though there are protocols out there that
frangio: are what is called modular security, so you can sort of swap out the verification mechanisms that is used underneath to to verify whatever happened on another chain. You know.
frangio: protocols tend to want neutrality right? They want to be sort of self-contained. They want to reduce their dependencies on on other protocols, on other businesses. They want to control their, their
frangio: their stack and and their interfaces. And so
frangio: it really doesn't seem to me viable to say to the interrupt protocol developers, you should use protocol X or Y to offer your functionality right? We want to have an interface that they can take off the shelf and and use to offer their protocol without relying on another party.
frangio: And I think so far that hasn't existed, even though there have been proposals. They had problems and they had limitations. And that's why each new entry, each new party that entered this space had to come up with their own thing. And so the goal of Erc. 7,786 is to make something that is
frangio: finally good enough to satisfy these, you know, to get over these limitations that we've had in the past and satisfy whatever needs new protocols may have, and also, you know, to make sure, for slight deviations by building in some degree of extensibility, so that protocols could, you know, slightly deviate if they really need to. But this this idea of
frangio: you know, being able to take an interface off the shelf and use it, which is, you know, what we have seen happen with like Erc 20 erc. 4,626, all of the nfts, you know, I think it's really critical, and we haven't had it so far.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, that's great.
Ellie Davidson: And if I could add just something of my own, you know, I just. It's very important that the standard be incredibly neutral, like Francisco said, it's not very realistic to expect, you know, certain interrupt protocols to adopt the protocols of their competitors.
Ellie Davidson: I also think it's very important to, you know. Just not make the ecosystem too reliant on any single protocol. You know the protocols will always exist underneath, but it would not be good. If you know all of the infrastructure that apps use for messaging relies on a single project, and you know that project doesn't exist anymore, or, you know, is not aligned with the values of the ecosystem. So yeah, I think the big point here is that the standard should be credibly neutral.
Ellie Davidson: which is why, you know, standardizing existing things we didn't think was a very good idea.
Ellie Davidson: Any comments, questions.
Joshua Rudolf: I had one question sorry, and maybe we'll get into this next. So feel free just to say, if so. But yeah, I think neutrality is obviously critical here, and I guess I would say even sort of table stakes. But I'm wondering if we can maybe help explain why we are Bullish sort of the more offensive
Joshua Rudolf: reasons why we are confident that this solves real problems, why the customers of this will actually adopt it
Joshua Rudolf: beyond the sort of neutrality, aspects of it.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, these are really good questions.
Ellie Davidson: I will. Okay, I'll share my thoughts. And then maybe cj, you could share yours because I think that you do a good job of describing this, so I would say that the customers of 7,786 are mainly 2 things. They are the messaging protocols and the application developers. I'd say the application developers are the primary customer of 7,786, and a standard interface for messaging provides the following value for applications.
Ellie Davidson: So 1st off.
Ellie Davidson: it provides a single Api that can interact with any messaging protocol that currently exists and does exist in the future. This makes applications like modular. They don't have to worry about the specifics of the messaging protocol itself. They don't have to do specific integrations for specific protocols. And this just makes it a lot easier for application developers to deploy applications across a variety of different chains.
Ellie Davidson: The other thing is that you know, chains are supported by different messaging protocols, while a lot of the Protocols are, you know, used on a lot of the chains. Certain protocols are not connected to certain chains, etc, and realistically apps want to connect to all chains. So they want to be able to use multiple messaging protocols. At the same time.
Ellie Davidson: you know, eg. Receiving a message from chain, a uses protocol X, but receiving a message from chain B uses protocol y, they want to be able to do this. So they can actually offer this really seamless cross-chain experience to their users. So a single interface just makes all of this much easier.
Ellie Davidson: but I'll hand it over to Cj.
CJ Cobb: Yeah. So I see there being like 2 main customers of this interface. The 1st is apps, like Ellie said, so like, if you have one sort of interface to cross chain messaging like apps, can, you know, write their smart contract code? And then the interrupt provider is just totally modular, so like, if they want to like, move to a more secure provider, like innovation happens, and all of a sudden, like, there is just a
CJ Cobb: way more secure messaging provider apps can move to that provider without having to like, rewrite their code and upgrade their contracts and all that. There's no like lock in, so it allows apps to inevitably be more secure. It allows cross chain to be faster, like no one's going to be locked into some like 2 year old. Interrupt provider right? Like, just as innovation proceeds like apps can just use that innovation
CJ Cobb: right? So that's 1 thing. The second thing is
CJ Cobb: for protocol developers themselves like having a standard Api really simplifies things. This has come up in this group itself, right? There have been several people that have proposed like novel verification mechanisms for cross chain messaging, and they were forced to also define their own interface for sending the message, which is silly. That's not where they're innovating. That's not what their work is. They shouldn't have to spend time on that.
CJ Cobb: And like, if they define an interface like apps that already use a different interface can't use their work right if you come up with some really really novel verification scheme that's totally trustless. Best like, infinitely secure like.
CJ Cobb: how can you push it to existing apps if they're using a different interface? Right? So the idea is like, we remove that part from the equation and say, this is the interface, and let innovation on verification, speed, trustlessness, all that like happen separate from the interface.
CJ Cobb: So, yeah, that's it.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. And if I can add to that, I think one of the things I really hope to see many messaging protocols today. Do you have this like modular verification, but not all of them. And what I really think that this Api can allow is like once some of those messaging protocols start supporting like real time. Ck proofs and things like that. Applications can like very easily upgrade to those more secure verification methods, you know, without having to rework anything in their contract.
Ellie Davidson: But anyway, does anybody have any? Oh, yeah, go ahead.
CJ Cobb: I was gonna say, yeah, like, cross chain verification is going to continue to innovate like forever. It will never stop like there will always be people coming up with better mechanisms, more secure, faster, cheaper, right? And we just want that to just sort of happen, right? To just be plugged in and and modular, and not something that people need to move to. So.
Ellie Davidson: Hmm.
frangio: Yeah, I also wanna mention a particular use case, which is when as a as a smart contract developer, you are, you know, creating your protocol. You want to deploy it on many roll ups. And you have the need to use. Say, the canonical bridge of that roll up to connect talk back to the other one.
frangio: Currently, you need to separately integrate each particular bridge. You know that each roll up uses right? That will behave slightly differently. And you know that's additional work you need to do. And this sort of unified interface would
frangio: make that easier and and more efficient.
Ellie Davidson: Anybody have any feedback, or, you know, disagreements.
Joshua Rudolf: There's a couple of questions in the chat.
Joshua Rudolf: one around. How does it compare with 7, 2, 8, 1 xcrc. 20.
Ellie Davidson: Okay, I don't recall what 7, 8, 2, 1 is off the top of my head. I'd have to look it up. But compared to Xerc. 20. So it actually is very similar to Xerc. 20, you know. Kind of all of these like interfaces are very, very similar, like, Sergey said, I would say. The main difference is that xerc. 20 is specifically for token bridging.
Ellie Davidson: whereas 7, 7, 8, 6 supports token bridging, but then it also can support, like arbitrary message passing of data which I think is very important to do as well.
frangio: Yeah, we should see this as different layers. And you've got the message passing layer. And then on top of that you've got the token, bridging layer, and next Crc. 27, 8, 2, 1 also is an alternative to it. So they're also in that layer. But then.
frangio: underneath you you have the message passing. So take kind of like an intent protocol, for example, would use Xcrc. 20 or 7, 8, 2, 1 to do like rebalancing of the liquidity across chains. But it would use 7, 7, 8, 6 for message passing of like
frangio: notifying that a fail happened, and that you know that settlement has to happen on the other chain. So there's room for those 2 depending on exactly what you're doing.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. Wade has a good question, actually. And maybe Francisco, you could also answer this one. It's 7, 7, 8, 6 uses, Cape 2 and Cape 10. So do we think that you know these, those separate standards are going to be standardized as well.
frangio: Yeah. So first, st I'll mention one of the things that
frangio: we we really wanted to do with 17 a 6 is, make it
frangio: very well defined how it supports different chains, different vms.
frangio: and which is something that previous Erc attempts at message passing like unification, hadn't done successfully. And so that's why we chose Cape 2 and Cape 10 to do that.
frangio: even though, like recognizing that they they have some some limitations and some some issues.
frangio: But there is the Interoperable address.
frangio: standard sort of effort working group that's currently going on. And the we are interested in adopting that because, you know it. It fixes some of the issues that Cape 10
frangio: has for us. So even though you might see that in the spec right now it is. You know this is one of the things that is
frangio: sort of in the in the to-do list to
frangio: to improve. So there's definitely no consensus on Cape 10 being the Cross Chain address. Standard. I invite you to look at the interoperable address
frangio: progress.
frangio: There's been a very recent spec
frangio: that was just shared there in the chat that's looking actually really good.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. And yeah, I guess I just also want to highlight that, you know. 7, 7, 8, 6. It has, like.
Ellie Davidson: you know, even though it is proposed like, it's still in the process where we can still make changes to it. If you know, the community feels like certain changes are important. It's not set in stone. So yeah, I just want to like everybody should who is interested can go and provide feedback, like on
Ellie Davidson: on the standard, you know, in Github, in Github.
Ellie Davidson: Alright! Any other questions.
CJ Cobb: I just wanted to second that like, really quick. Yeah, like 7 76, like we, we're still iterating on it. And like, at this point, we want to do more of like community iteration, like, because the whole point is to just get everyone to sort of agree on the packet format. Right the header. So it's not like we decided it should be this, and this is our pitch like, take it or leave it. It's like, let's just work together as a community, and agree on like a common Api for sending messages.
Ellie Davidson: All right, any thoughts, or should I dive into some more hard questions?
Ellie Davidson: All right. All right. So another.
Ellie Davidson: You know another kind of question that, or, you know, very legitimate argument against 7,786 is that you know well, any sort of existing application would need to upgrade to this protocol. And that's a lot of work. It's easier if the existing applications, just, you know, stay using the protocol that they're already using.
Ellie Davidson: And yes, so this is true. And I would say that this is kind of unavoidable. You know, current apps that are integrated with a particular messaging protocol like it is to for them to do any sort of upgrade. They will have to change their contracts, and they are already kind of like vendor locked into a certain protocol
Ellie Davidson: which is specifically a 7,786 is trying to fix. So I think that this is kind of an unavoidable problem with any solution, you know, even if we would say, standardize like an existing protocol, all of the applications that exist that use other protocols would need to upgrade to it. So yes, this is a very fair criticism, but I think it's unavoidable.
Ellie Davidson: And but, secondly, I think that specifically new applications can very easily adopt this, and I think that you know there will be a lot more new cross-chain applications like going forward in the future than there are today. And so all of these new applications can easily adopt it.
Ellie Davidson: And over time, existing applications, you know, can slowly migrate to it. But yes, you know, we don't expect that existing applications will like migrate to this new Api on day one, you know, that's really not realistic. But
Ellie Davidson: but the other option. So the alternative for exist for existing applications is they can migrate to 7, 7, 8, 6. It's difficult, but they get a lot of benefits, or they can just remain as is, which is totally fine. But then they also suffer all of the problems that we talked about, which is like this fragmentation. They can't, you know, contact certain chains like all of these things. So
Ellie Davidson: I guess. Tldr what I just said like, yes, current applications probably will not adopt this anytime soon, but we believe new applications. Will
Ellie Davidson: any thoughts?
Ellie Davidson: Another thing, too?
Ellie Davidson: that I think, is cool to point out about 7,786, and this, you know, this could be true for other other standards as well. But so open Zeppelin has, you know, been developing adapters for different messaging protocols. Because the flip side to the question is, well, why would a messaging protocol like adopt this, you know?
Ellie Davidson: And so with these adapters 7,786 can be adapted to work with any messaging protocol, you know, without a direct integration from the protocol itself. So this will also make the adoption of it very easy because it can be adopted. You know, these major messaging protocols that are already used, you know, can basically be can work with 7,786 like day one.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. Victor.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Yeah, I guess to that point.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Have has there been any work on like case studies to show which messaging protocols could fit?
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Well beneath this interface and way, which ones might not fill fit well. Underneath this interface.
CJ Cobb: Oh, yeah. So we sort of took like our like as our like. I don't know.
CJ Cobb: Goal, what is. I don't know what the word is like. The the way we're thinking about this is, we take like axler, layer, 0 wormhole, and usually hyperlane, and try to make sure our interface works with those. And then, as a secondary thing, we usually try to take some Major L. 2 bridges like the Arbitrum Bridge. And what else was it, Fran? Like
CJ Cobb: what other L. 2 bridges do we look at.
frangio: Optimism.
CJ Cobb: Yeah, like, arbitrary optimism. That's like our sort of
CJ Cobb: North Star, like, we wanna make sure it works with all those things. And if we can like, then it's pretty good. We also like did add this thing called attributes into the spec that's supposed to be our way to like make it work with the long tail of interrupt providers like that. It might be slightly more difficult today. But yeah.
frangio: I'll add a little bit to that which is that the core of this interface, which is, you have, you know you have a sender. You have a destination chain. You have a receiver, a payload. That basic thing is almost universal. Right? Quite naturally. And so
frangio: that's also the core of 786. And so that's easy to do where it starts to differ, you know, to deviate and to differ more is in what is related to paying for gas and relaying costs. Those interfaces are
frangio: more significantly different, and we are now in the process of also standardizing that part. And you know, we still have to
frangio: understand how well it it maps to existing things.
frangio: But the core of it is quite universal.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Yeah, but actually, and actually one things I was, you know, kind of new space. But I'm just gonna kind of unsure about. When I read this specification the 1st time was the interface for execute message has payable.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: and if I send
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: value to that execute message function, what happens to it is like, was it not immediately clear to me? Like, it seems my understanding after finishing it. Reading this, I'm thinking about it for a bit. It seems like it should be the case that equivalent value should be sent to the receiver, and that that payable amount is not eligible for gas like gas deductions. But maybe that's not the case. I'm curious about that.
frangio: So. So if you read the accompanying text, you'll see it says, you know it's undefined what happens to to the value in payable. It may be rejected. So it'll depend on the protocol, and and that's there. Because, like.
frangio: if it's a if it's a canonical bridge, you'll have a very simple way of just sending through
frangio: the eth or the token. But in other bridges you won't be able to do that so, but it's something that I would be interested in working out more in the spec how that works, and in this in the open Pr, we have where we're working on the quoting and cast payment. I am touching a little bit of these these lines to to make that a little bit clearer, but the behavior it still depends on on the underlying bridge.
frangio: And there was one more thing I wanted to say about how this interface a universal interface adapt to
frangio: to this wide variety of protocols. There's 1 part where
frangio: it is particularly hard, which is the chain Id. Because every protocol uses proprietary chain ids
frangio: to identify the destination and source chains. This is the part where it gets really more difficult to translate interfaces, and the choice of Cape 2, which are the the chain agnostic chain, id standard
frangio: sort of gives us the solution for that. But then to figure out the mapping to that to the proprietary chain, Id is a little bit harder, and that, I think, is the the main. The only thing about the you know, the core part of the message sending
frangio: that is trickier to do.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: And actually kind of relate to that. I noticed that basically, there's a source chain Cape 2. And then there's also the sender Cape 10, which the Cape 10 should also include a Cape, 2.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Chanty. If I'm understanding correctly, so why have those to be 2 separate fields.
frangio: This is a really very technical detail that I don't think it makes sense to go into. Now, I'm happy to talk about it more later, but definitely have thought about that and
frangio: and and considered it.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, if there's no other
Ellie Davidson: other comments on that, maybe we can move forward to kind of just talking about the practicality of 7, 7, 8, 6, and getting it, you know, into production.
Ellie Davidson: So I think with the message passing interface, you know, they're
Ellie Davidson: we need to strike like a good balance. We need to strike a good balance between having something very soon, so that all of these cross chain apps that are going to pop up have something to use that standardized. It only becomes harder to create a standard. Api, you know, like the further we go down.
Ellie Davidson: So that's 1 end. But on the other end we also want this Api to be good. We want it to be, you know, very future proof. We want it to be something that you know will stand the test of time over several years. So with that.
Ellie Davidson: I think that the 7, 7, 8, 6 currently strikes a good balance, because while it's not officially standardized, yet there are implementations of these smart contracts that exist today from my understanding, you know, like these could fairly easily be made, you know, like production ready and put on mainnet
Ellie Davidson: the adapters don't all exist today, but based on our conversations with some others in the group. It seems like creating these adapters would not take a whole lot of time.
Ellie Davidson: So the other thing. So I guess that's not kind of another. Pro 7, 7, 8, 6, right now is that it has a lot of like actual infrastructure already built behind it, which allows us to move a lot more quickly on it, which I think is important.
CJ Cobb: Oh, yeah, just one to second, like at at Axler, like we we will, you know, have an adapter for this. So that way like you can send messages through the Axler protocol if we don't support it natively, you know. So you can send messages through the Axler protocol using 7, 76. We're also in the process of shipping another product built on 776. That is sort of like an aggregator that you can send messages across multiple interop protocols at the same time. And they're only considered verified, based on some
CJ Cobb: security scheme that the app defines like 2 out of 3 and that would use 7, 7, 8, 6 as well.
CJ Cobb: That's a nice product, in my opinion, because I think that's like the most secure way to do cross chain messaging. It's hard to like hack 2 bridges at the exact same time. So. But yeah, those are just 2
CJ Cobb: products.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, no, yeah. That's a good point like this kind of aligns nicely with Vitalik's blog post that he posted a while ago about kind of like proof aggregation, you know, having this interface that can easily do that. It, you know it's great, because applications can, you know, upgrade to these aggregated proofs very easily.
Ellie Davidson: anyway. Orest. Yes.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Do you have a timeline for some sort of
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): first, st I guess, complete suite, like an alpha version for for me to take and and play with, and actually see, you know, the eap and the relaying, and and ideally also some verification
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): work together.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. Maybe. Francisco.
frangio: Yeah, well.
frangio: that's a. It's an important question. Great question. And it really, you know, we really have to understand. Erc 7, 7 x 6 is an interface, right? So when we talk about like an end-to-end suite, we would be talking about a particular instantiation of that, and
frangio: we could say, talk about the axler adapter for that right? And
frangio: I can't give you a timeline right now, but it's you know we we have the adapter. We've deployed it and tested it with, you know, an end to end thing. Maybe we should talk about that offline to understand
frangio: what you want to see, and and when we can get it done.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Sure. Thank you.
CJ Cobb: Yeah, a lot of this is sort of, I don't wanna say blocked, but like not totally prioritized, because we're trying to get like sort of community consensus around the spec itself, like. So it's like, Do you want to go the full mile to push something to production while it's still being sort of designed, you know. But if if there's
CJ Cobb: a desire for yeah, like an alpha product that people can play with like we can prioritize that, and like that, I I don't think that should take more than like a few months really like. It's fairly simple.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, I do want to go back to Marissa's question in the chat.
Ellie Davidson: So this is a question, is that
Ellie Davidson: 7,786 does not enforce, like a certain verification mechanism. This means that all sorts of verification mechanisms can be used, and they don't all have the same security.
Ellie Davidson: and but the security of these verification mechanisms very much affects the applications. Applications don't want to allow certain message verification types, but they do want to allow others. So yeah, this. So the apps, deciding what their own security module is, still works with 7,786. So applications would still say like, Hey, I require this certain verifier
Ellie Davidson: a Zk proof, and they would reject any messages that that don't have that. So applications are still able to like, specify.
Ellie Davidson: You know, very specific security parameters. Because which is, yeah, this is a very important property that we need to keep, because this is a very good point
Ellie Davidson: any more questions.
Wei Dai: Yeah, I just had one which I typed out in the chat.
Wei Dai: But basically on attribute keys. It says that in the current spec what the version that's on the website. It says every key must have the format of solid function signature, which is 4 Byte. So why is that enforced. I think this may limit generalizability beyond evm.
frangio: In the end. The only thing that matters is the resulting 4 Byte right which it acts as a tag. It's just a standardized way to generate it, and it would be generated off chain. So as far as I can tell, it wouldn't
frangio: really be an issue to to use it in non evm context. You just need the 4 Byte constant in there. But then the rest of the the encoding can be vm. Specific.
Wei Dai: I think it might make sense. I don't know, maybe because he also says that it's expected, for
Wei Dai: you know certain attribute keys to be standardized via Ercs.
Wei Dai: you know, there might be like 2 classes of of actually keys, right? One that's standardized, one that's maybe more custom. Depending on the bridge or messaging protocol? Like a basic. I think 2 questions, basically.
Wei Dai: you know, is 4 Byte enough. Do we need more potentially
Wei Dai: and you know. Make sure we reserve reserve some of the actual key space for like
Wei Dai: attribute keys that need to be standardized and maybe another. Another. You know
Wei Dai: another category. For, okay, this actually can be anything arbitrary, and there's no how do you standardized at all. And
Wei Dai: the messaging bridges can implement whatever they want.
frangio: My take here is like 4 Byte seems to be enough for function selectors, and I think it's roughly the same
frangio: here, even though you know
frangio: there are obviously the possibility of having collisions. But you're you're never thinking about this when you talk to a trusted contract. Right? You already know what its Abi is, and this would. It would be the same here with
frangio: gateways. You sort of.
frangio: You're sort of. You're connecting to a particular gateway, you know
frangio: what attributes it supports. So it's a similar thing there. I don't think we should be worried about the collisions.
Ellie Davidson: Okay? Matt asked a really good question in the chat.
Ellie Davidson: you know, which is, I think I can summarize, as you know, like we say that applications don't have to make any changes to their contracts if they want to switch messaging protocols. But like, is that actually true? And like, what does that actually mean?
Ellie Davidson: so
Ellie Davidson: the changes should be very minimal. But like, there will be changes specifically in that, you know, an application will have to specify a certain verifier, you know. Verifiers
Ellie Davidson: you know, maybe specific to certain chains, etc, so like they will have to specify that. But the idea is that this is like a configurable item. It is not changes to the core structure of their smart contracts.
Ellie Davidson: The other thing is fee you mentioned is like fee calculations and fee calculations should ideally just be very modular and, like you should have kind of like a singular modular interface that says, like calculate cross chain gas that can be into, you know, implemented in any such way. But it's the same Api interface that all of these apps would connect with. So no, they don't have to adjust their fee
Ellie Davidson: fee mechanism inside their app. But I don't know if Cj. Or Frangio have any more comments.
CJ Cobb: Yeah, I was just.
frangio: Regarding the the fees like like I said, we're in the process of of designing the the Fee Api, so we we can't
frangio: answer the particular part about the fees just yet.
frangio: But it's a really great point we need to look into. Actually.
frangio: would this apply across the board? And I pasted the Pr link over there. People are invited to to let us know what they think about it. There.
CJ Cobb: Yeah, that is the ultimate goal, though, right is to just be able to hot swap. And it all just works. There's some element of maybe that won't work in certain cases. But that's what we're working for. Fees are harder, right? Even though we are working towards that with fees. It is harder. This is something like, send a message. It? Yeah, it has proven pretty swappable in practice. You just send a message. There's like a little bit of a translation, and that's it. But the app doesn't care
CJ Cobb: also for the fee part of things.
CJ Cobb: we have talked about sort of like having 2
CJ Cobb: like like 7, 7, 8, 6, sort of encompassing, like 2 interfaces where there's the message sending interface and the the fee interface. So for, like the situation, where, for some reason, some interrupt protocol like the fee interface like they, they it just cannot work with 7, 7, 8, 6, that they can still support the messaging interface, because that is generally much simpler. And and yeah, and that's like your app logic as well. So yeah.
Ellie Davidson: Anyone have thoughts.
Matt Cutler | Blocknative | Gas Network: Hey, guys, Matt, here. Something we've been working on. I just need to get out. There's been a lot going on on. Our end is
Matt Cutler | Blocknative | Gas Network: protocol that will publish a suggestion around
Matt Cutler | Blocknative | Gas Network: chains, being able to declare their gas markets, because not only do our our fees an ongoing thing, but chains regularly produce upgrades to their gas markets that change the nature of the fee structure, and so you can be working under one set of assumptions that may or may not be valid if there's been an upgrade on the target chain. So just something to consider that these are dynamic markets that change with upgrade.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, I think the way I see it is that
Ellie Davidson: something like that? We could. You know, it could be very, very modular in the sense that yeah, like applications should be able to
Ellie Davidson: like this should be abstracted from applications. It should be extracted from the messaging Api itself. But then, like different sort of gas markets can be swapped in. Or you know, gas specifications can be swapped in, you know, when they're needed.
Matt Cutler | Blocknative | Gas Network: I think the question is discoverability. So I wanna I'm on chain A, I'm trying to pass a message, a swap to chain. B. You know, do I? Does my application have an accurate understanding of the current state of that gas market? And so maybe you know, the proposal that I'll put forward is a mechanism by which each chain can sort of specify. Here's how my gas market works. Here's the parameters, and here is the version. So that if the version has incremented the application can verify.
CJ Cobb: Yeah. The way we're thinking about this generally is the application requests a fee estimate like before sending a message right? And so it sounds like what you're building this like gas marketing would sort of like plug in behind the fee estimate. So like the application is always getting like a correct estimate, or correct enough.
Matt Cutler | Blocknative | Gas Network: Sounds good.
Ellie Davidson: all right. If there's no other comments, you know, maybe it would be useful. I know we only have about 10min left to just briefly kind of discuss the properties we felt like a messaging protocol should have. So I can link this in the chat. It is still a Pr. So subject to
Ellie Davidson: subject to change. But
Ellie Davidson: so any sort of messaging interface, whether it's 7,786 or not, we feel like, should have safety. Obviously, as long as you assume that the message verification is honest, you know the Api should be able to deliver a message if and only if it was actually made at the source chain.
Ellie Davidson: The Api should also have liveness.
Ellie Davidson: So, assuming the liveness of the individual chains and the censorship of censorship resistance of the individual chains. A message should eventually be received on the destination chain.
Ellie Davidson: We think Vm. Agnosticism is very important. As was mentioned, earlier. Previous standards have focused on only Evm Apis, which it makes sense because most use cases are Evm use cases. But I think in the future non-evm use cases are going to become quite important to support
Ellie Davidson: secondly, or fourthly, it should support any sort of verification mechanism, so proof agnostic it should be protocol agnostic meaning, it should support any underlying messaging protocol.
Ellie Davidson: and finally, it should be optimized for the most popular use cases. So this would be bridging tokens, even though 7,786 can very much support like an arbitrary message. Passing scheme, we recognize that bridging tokens is like the primary use case that something like this would be used for. So we are
Ellie Davidson: taking that into consideration, you know, and
Ellie Davidson: that, you know, for example, there are ways you could extend 7, 7, 8, 6 to kind of handle like these very certain edge cases in certain applications. But
Ellie Davidson: realistically, we don't think it's worth that. And if an application really has this super complex thing that they need to, that they need to do, then they should just interact with the messaging protocol itself. Trying to make the messaging protocol or trying to make 7, 7, 8, 6, like you work for every single possible use. Case would just make it very complex kind of defeating the purpose. In the 1st place.
Ellie Davidson: I see a few comments in the chat. Let me read them.
CJ Cobb: Oh, I just wanted to double click on the all Vm point. Real quick. So this is one of our main goals with 7, 7, 8, 6, and I think is one of the actual, like technical differences between 7, 7, 8, 6, and some other previous Ercs. And we view, this is very important, like, we really tried to make the spec something that can be implemented from Solana from any sort of Vm
CJ Cobb: or honestly, even chains that don't have a Vm. Right like at Axel. Our protocol is quite similar to 7,786, and we've implemented this coming from Xrp Ledger, which is not a smart contract chain like you can make, like smart contract calls from Xrp ledger, using an interface very, very similar to 7,786, and on ethereum. You don't know the difference, like of whether it came from there
CJ Cobb: working from Bitcoin. Right? You could do this from Bitcoin and so that was like one of our goals.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah. And one thing I like about this goal is that so we often focus on specifically L 2 interop, which is, I think, by far the most important thing right now, and 100. But really, in the future you want interrupt between l. 1 s. Like, there should be very clean interop between ethereum and solana, because that's actually a major pathway that users want. And it's
Ellie Davidson: and if you can use the same interface to bridge to Solana as you're using to bridge to like arbitrum or OP like that's incredibly incredibly useful.
frangio: Even within the L 2 sphere. Right? We want to enable alt vms, like startnet
frangio: and the lack of of a standard that caters to them
frangio: could really, you know, hamper that innovation. So I think this is another benefit.
Ellie Davidson: Okay, wait. I had a question, which is that 7,786 does not actually guarantee message delivery of or guarantee that messages are actually delivered in the sense that it's more Udp like Tcp. So what I would say is that, like actual message, delivery is really
Ellie Davidson: for the messaging protocol level like an Api itself can't really enforce it. So you have to trust that the protocol will enforce message delivery, and that the chains themselves are like live. But I guess another way to put it is that the Api should not prevent that. Like there should be no situation where an Api prevents a message from being delivered that was.
Ellie Davidson: you know, actually sent from the source chain.
CJ Cobb: Yeah, liveness is generally provided by a relayer, right? Like which is like somewhat I don't wanna say outside the protocol, but it's like a higher level than the protocol itself like than verification. However, like Ellie said, messages should be deliverable right like there's no there's nothing that like a message should be like blocked on some like centralized entity. It should be like once the message is sent like it, it can be delivered. You could deliver it. The relayer could deliver it like it's it's valid.
Wei Dai: I guess my question is more regarding like, let's say, if you want to, you know, do like a lock a mint where I kind of unlock operation we'll have to basically from the source, from target chain. Send back to the source chain before I do the unlock operation, because I cannot assume that message have been delivered right.
Ellie Davidson: Yes, this is true. Yeah.
CJ Cobb: Yeah. Yeah. But there should never be a case where, like, if you lock on the source chain like it should be mintable on the destination chain. It's just a question of like, when right does that make sense.
Wei Dai: Yeah, I was wondering whether you know, a Tcp like extension should also be
Wei Dai: you know, like standardized. But it seems yeah, like, if if it's really just to a message passing, we don't have to. It can just be epic level.
CJ Cobb: Hmm.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, I think maybe that's also a good question, which is like, you know, why don't we standardize a messaging protocol itself? Because then we could standardize something like a, you know, guaranteed delivery mechanism within like a certain time bound, and the answer to that is that
Ellie Davidson: messaging protocols which often are combined with verification. Layers as well are.
Ellie Davidson: I think, would be something that is very difficult to standardize. Maybe in the future we can, but I don't think it's it's at all realistic to standardize that in the near term, because there are very many valid, you know, design trade-offs and decisions to be made. Also the messaging protocol standard would need to support every single use case which makes it, you know, even more complex. So anyway, that's like the benefit of just focusing on the Api instead of kind of going down the rabbit hole of actually, you know, standardizing
Ellie Davidson: the the messaging protocol itself.
Ellie Davidson: All right. We only have 5min left. Does anybody have some final thoughts? Oh, yeah, Josh.
Joshua Rudolf: Yeah, sorry. I just had I guess maybe one final question from my side at least.
Joshua Rudolf: and we already touched on this a little bit. But maybe we could. Yeah, quickly come back to what is the success? Criteria for 7, 7, 8, 6, 1218 months from now, whatever assuming the bulk case. What do we think? Success looks like.
Ellie Davidson: This is a really good question. Go ahead. Cj.
CJ Cobb: So 1st success criteria is the products that I mentioned before, right like from from my side, from the axler side, like we want to make sure we ship the adapters for this. It's usable, it's workable. It's running in production. Also, the aggregator, right? That uses 7, 7, 8, 6, usable, workable running in production. Those 2 things. The other thing that I think would be a success criteria is, if we see new interrupt protocols like coming out or being designed.
CJ Cobb: they use the 7, 7, 8, 6 interface. They don't feel the need to like design their own interface for no real reason that say, okay, like 7, 76, I'm going to use it. And behind that will be my novel verification scheme.
CJ Cobb: whatever my innovation is. So yeah, that's what I think.
Ellie Davidson: Yeah, yeah. For me, the success, rate or success criteria is very similar. If we can have adapters for Axel, wormhole, layer 0 and hyperlink, since those are the most popular protocols. Right now, if we can have those within like 6 months and deployed in production and apps can start using them that would be very successful. My hope is that we could actually do it faster than that. And then the next step of success criteria would be like how many new applications are actually using this interface.
frangio: Yeah, I I mine are are similar to Cj's which is, you know, I want to see new interrupt protocols using this interface for their message
frangio: sending feature.
frangio: But I, you know, plus one to at least as well like I want to see applications, you know, being able to use that successfully.
Jonathan Alexander: I'll just say it. Just yep, plus one on Elise, that I think we will do them.
Jonathan Alexander: Once we settle on some of these final issues. We'd want to
Jonathan Alexander: add support for all those
Jonathan Alexander: message messaging systems sooner than 6 months. And then the other thing that we are going to be looking for for success. Criteria is, we want to start enabling more of the
Jonathan Alexander: opens upland contracts to enable embed cross chain messaging, and then we will be success. Criteria for us will be to see
Jonathan Alexander: beginning to see adoption of those contracts and use of them and deployment of them. So
Ellie Davidson: Yep.
Ellie Davidson: and maybe as a as like a final thought on timelines so the like. The exact timelines kind of depend on how much, you know. Further iteration we need on 7, 7, 8, 6, and you know other things. But what I would like to propose now that we've had this discussion is that you know, we
Ellie Davidson: or at least I feel that 7, 7, 8, 6 is a very good way to go forward. Going forward, we should. We can iterate on like the very minor details of 7, 7, 8, 6, that some people brought up here. I think maybe we can do that over the next.
Ellie Davidson: I'm well, I don't know. I want to give people enough time to do that, but like at the latest, like the next month at most, and then I think we should, you know, like standardize 7, 7, 8, 6, unless we have some major reason not to.
Ellie Davidson: I don't know if anybody agrees or disagrees with that.
frangio: That sounds good to me.
Ellie Davidson: Hmm!
Ellie Davidson: I guess to Josh's question. In the chat when we say new interrupt protocols.
Ellie Davidson: does anyone have thoughts on? What sort of protocols, I think, like an example which you yourself brought up would be bases erc.
Ellie Davidson: which is itself really just the verification part like that's the main part, but it has its own interface, you know, if, like that protocol would adapt to the 7, 7, 8, 6 interface like that would be really really successful. I think.
frangio: For me when that comes to mind, is the super chain right? And I would also say, espresso right as a way to communicate between
frangio: roll-ups.
Ellie Davidson: Yes, espresso you know, assuming there's nothing crazy that happens when we end up. Not standardizing this espresso will adopt 7, 7, 8 6,
Ellie Davidson: all right. We're at the top of the hour, so I appreciate everybody joining if you have any comments like definitely put them in the telegram chat, or you can put them directly on the on Github. You can put them in like the L 2 interop repo, or on the 7, 7, 8 6 repo as well. I would just like, I mean, really, if anybody has like any thoughts, I think the most useful thing right now is for us just to get as much feedback as possible.
Ellie Davidson: So I very, very much appreciate it. If anybody does that. If anybody thinks of, you know.
Ellie Davidson: arguments against 7, 7, 8, 6 that they want to discuss. Like, yeah. Put them in the chat.
Ellie Davidson: we would like to work through all of them. But I appreciate everybody who asked questions, and everybody who listened.
frangio: Thank you.
Orest Tarasiuk (t1): Thank you for running this session, Ellie. Bye-bye, guys.
Joshua Rudolf: And so.
CJ Cobb: Thanks.
Ellie Davidson: Bye.
QEDK: Cheers, everyone.
Victor | RISC Zero / Boundless: Bye, all.